---
layout: post
title: "Using Vim"
tagline: "Why Vim defects are awesome"
date: 2013-04-30 10:03
comments: true
tags: [ editors ]
---

I'm starting to use Vim and I don't think I will change again, it is not
easy to start using it, but it's not impossible.

## Modal editor ##

> "the best code is no code at all"

Once I heard that the tools you use help you doing things in a certain
way, making easy do it the good way or the bad way.

Is hard to write with ruby bad object oriented code (this is the idea).
The idea is to make easy to make readable code and make harder the
opposite.

Well Vim makes easy to think on the code in a certain way. The first you
note when enter Vim is that you have an extra step to insert text, this
is the very first impression and the most disgusting. And it is right.

Adding text should not be easy. This extra step makes possible to
rethink before typing. Vim makes it easy to move on the text, to edit
existing text it just makes difficult to add bunch of text.

<!--more-->

## Vim has defects. ##

> "Love the defects or do not love."

I hate people that presents things that have no problem and work great,
this is shit, Vim have to be chosen by those problems like everything.
We just described a defect, it makes it harder to write text, this is a
defect (specially in a text editor).

Vim is in English, everything in Vim is English shit. The keyboard
layout, the mnemonics, the help files, the ideology, just everything.
You have to live with that or leave it. It's open source so no-one will
care if you don't like this.

It's old, and is proud of that, it have a compatible mode to keep
compatibility with computers before computers, and it is the default
one. This help you think that everything is in process of being, it
didn't end now and it didn't started today. If you are writing a new
book or a new program, keep in mind you are not starting you are just
continuing a mayor labor.

You will have to learn it, not just the first time. Some people do not
like that the editor takes precious time, having to learn the editor is
not an option in Vim and it just don't end.

## Starting with Vim ##

Vim is not easy to start with, but it don't have to be traumatic. There
is a [post][katz] about how to start with the right foot, the general
idea is to try to do thinks the usual way at first, and start learning
new ways on the go. This includes start with some extensions that will
help on that, so do not use compatible mode or console Vim at first, use
GVim at the very beginning.

To help with the first steps it's *highly recommended*^&trade; that
you use some pre-made settings like [janus][janus], that will help you
get started faster. Once you have this start using it, and try to learn
something new each day.

## Vim magic ##

It has some good moments, there are things that will make you happy.
There are things that at first seems strange but you get used to how it
works. Lets see some of them:

- Do, repeat, undo. This is the way to work of Vim instead of multiple
  cursors or similar. You can use `n` and `N` to repeat a *search* and
  back, `.` and `u` to repeat and *action* and undo and `;` and `,` to
  repeat the `f` and `t` moves and back.
- Syntax highlighting. Yes, all editors have this, but not as Vim has,
  because it have it first (or second after emacs), there are plug-ins
  for every language that exists and often there is more than one.
- It works from the console. So you will have the same functionality
  when you lack a GUI.
- It's everywhere. Once you know it you find that lots of shortcuts work
  on every program you use, your shell have a vi mode, gmail respond to
  vi shortcuts, github too and many more.
- Regex don't suck, but you should learn the `\m`, `\v`, `\zs` and `\ze`
  modificators first.

## Last notes ##

There is a lot to learn, there are so many tips that you will never know
half of them. But please, leave in the comments the one you think I
missed here.

  [katz]: http://yehudakatz.com/2010/07/29/everyone-who-tried-to-convince-me-to-use-vim-was-wrong/

  [janus]: https://github.com/carlhuda/janus/
